DOC more precise calibration wording (#28171)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/modules/calibration.rst

.. currentmodule:: sklearn.linear_model

> :class:`LogisticRegression` is more likely to return well calibrated predictions by default as it has a

Reviewer: "more likely" calls for a comparison: more likely than what?

I would also like to change the term "by default" to something better. Maybe "by itself", "without re-calibration, or "if well specified"

canonical link function for its loss, i.e. the logit-link for the :ref:`log_loss`.

> This leads to the so-called **balance property**, see [8]_ and :ref:`Logistic_regression`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the unpenalized case, this leads to the so-called **balance property**, see [8]_ and :ref:`Logistic_regression`.
```

Author: Sure, we can do this.

If I were to actually rethink this text, I would remove the reference to the "balance property", which is too technical for most readers. I would prefer focusing on the big pictures, which is that proper scoring rules as losses are more likely to return calibrated probabilities, but they do need appropriate choice of model.

> In the above example, the data is generated according to a linear mechanism, which is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the plot above, data is generated according to a linear mechanism, which is
```

> This leads to the so-called **balance property**, see [8]_ and :ref:`Logistic_regression`.
> In the above example, the data is generated according to a linear mechanism, which is
> consistent with the :class:`LogisticRegression` model (the model is 'well specified'),
> which then returns accurate predictions from its `predict_proba` method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This leads to the so-called **balance property**, see [8]_ and :ref:`Logistic_regression`.
In the above example, the data is generated according to a linear mechanism, which is
consistent with the :class:`LogisticRegression` model (the model is 'well specified')
and the arbitrarily chosen value of the regularization parameter `C` happens to be
appropriate (neither too strong nor too low). As a consequence, this model returns
accurate predictions from its `predict_proba` method.
```

Reviewer: As suggested above, I would mention the penalty with the balance property.

`C` is not "just right". It is well possible that a smaller value would lead to a better calibration.

Author: I've adapted the suggestions from the two of you (couldn't do it by accepting the suggestions on github because various suggestions were in conflict)

.. currentmodule:: sklearn.linear_model

> :class:`LogisticRegression` is more likely to return well calibrated predictions by itself as it has a

Reviewer 2: Maybe to address @lorentzenchr's comment:
```suggestion
:class:`LogisticRegression` is likely to return well calibrated predictions by itself as it has a
```

Author: I'd rather not: some people are going to argue that it's not that likely in absolute

> :class:`LogisticRegression` is more likely to return well calibrated predictions by itself as it has a

Reviewer 3: Maybe:

```suggestion
Out of the studied estimators, :class:`LogisticRegression` is the most likely to return well calibrated predictions by itself as it has a
```

> :class:`LogisticRegression` is more likely to return well calibrated predictions by itself as it has a

Reviewer 3: Maybe:

```suggestion
Out of all the studied estimators, :class:`LogisticRegression` is the most likely to return well calibrated predictions by itself because:
- its training loss function is a `strictly proper scoring rule <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scoring_rule>`_,
- the regularization parameter `C` is tuned on the same loss via inner cross-validation,
- it uses canonical link function for its loss, i.e. the logit-link for the :ref:`log_loss`.
```

Note: the last item should be manually merge with the following line but I cannot do it via the GitHub suggestion UI.

Reviewer 3: I can work on that in a follow-up PR.

canonical link function for its loss, i.e. the logit-link for the :ref:`log_loss`.

> In the unpenalized case, this leads to the so-called **balance property**, see [8]_ and :ref:`Logistic_regression`.

Reviewer 3: I read the reference that I found interesting. However, the balance property only involves the sample mean prediction (a single scalar) not the 10 bucketed mean predictions of the reliability curve. So that property alone, does not explain why LR tends to be better calibrated than other models in this study.

Reviewer: Note that the balance property holds for all features $j$, not only for the intercept, i.e. $0 = \sum_i x_{i,j} (y_i - m(x_{i,j}))$. In a way, that relates to conditional calibration $m(X) = E[Y|X]$. Conditional calibration implies auto-calibration $m(X) = E[Y|m(X)]$.

Reviewer 3: The balanced property does imply (even in-sample) auto-calibration on the dataset as demonstrated empirically on a dataset generated in a way that makes Logistic Regression a misspecified model, see:

https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28171#discussion_r1464660588

Reviewer 3: Let's close this to keep the PR focused on the original problem.

> In the plot above, data is generated according to a linear mechanism, which is

Reviewer: @ogrisel Can you comment if this is true?

consistent with the :class:`LogisticRegression` model (the model is 'well specified'),

> and the value of the regularization parameter `C` happens to be

Reviewer: Now, `C` is selected via LogisticRegressionCV, so it is bot by chance anymore.

Reviewer 3: The following should do be more accurate:

```suggestion
and the value of the regularization parameter `C` is tuned to be
```

> and the value of the regularization parameter `C` (chosen arbitrarily here) happens to be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and the value of the regularization parameter `C` happens to be
```

this was actually improved by #28231

> In the plot above, data is generated according to a linear mechanism, which is
> consistent with the :class:`LogisticRegression` model (the model is 'well specified'),
> and the value of the regularization parameter `C` (chosen arbitrarily here) happens to be
> appropriate (neither too strong nor too low). As a consequence, this model returns
> accurate predictions from its `predict_proba` method.

Reviewer 3: Actually this is not guaranteed:

- https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/blob/2d3629ff5/sklearn/datasets/_samples_generator.py#L42

with the default value of `n_clusters_per_class=2`, the data is not even necessarily linearly separable.

I tried to edit `n_clusters_per_class=1` but that does not seem to improve the calibration of the LR model: since the training data is very small (intentionally), it can happen that for some dataset RNG seeds, all models are badly calibrated.

Furthermore, I find that the plot of the example does not really show a well calibrated LR model. It's quite over-confident to me (almost as off-diagonal as the RF model but in a mirror way).

In #28231 I show how to automatically tune C on the NLL via `LogisticRegressionCV` and it seems to improve calibration a bit but it's still not perfect. If we merge #28231, I suggest to update this paragraph as:

```suggestion
In the plot above, the :class:`LogisticRegressionCV` model shows the reliability
diagram the closest to the diagonal. When the model is well-specified, that is
if the data generative mechanism involves a linear function of the input features,
and when the dataset size is large enough, we can expect this model yield well
calibrated predictions.
```

Reviewer 3: I am not even sure that "well-specified" LR model is required for asymptotic calibration in retrospect. The general for of the balance property discussed in https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28171#discussion_r1463811368 should be valid even when the LR model is mispecified. What matters is that the train and test sets are large enough to be close to the asymptotic regime and that regularization strength has tuned accordingly (close enough to zero when approaching the asymptotic regime).

Reviewer: One could debate the differences between necessary and sufficient conditions as well as what "well calibrated" means exactly. To keep it short and general enough, "sufficiently good specification" is required for "good calibration" with LR, as is large enough data to train on.

Reviewer 3: I edited the suggestion above. Let me know what you think.
